# America the Beautiful: Quantifying the recreation use value of U.S. natural lands

## Abstract

It is well recognized that natural lands are of great importance. However, they are increasingly threatened by human factors such as urban sprawl and energy development. To safeguard the clean air, clean drinking water, and food chains that support all life on Earth, the United States government launched the America the Beautiful initiative in 2021 with the goal to conserve, connect, and restore 30% of America's lands and waters by 2030 (U.S. Department of the Interior, 2023). To achieve this goal, conservation strategies need to be designed and implemented locally and regionally, as natural areas are disappearing at different rates and for different reasons across the country (Lee-Ashley et al., 2023). With this in mind, equitable and appropriate data-driven policy decisions between land development and land preservation call for measurements of the benefit provided by natural lands. One of the most important values of natural land areas is the recreational services provided, but no prior studies quantify the recreation use value of U.S. natural lands at the regional or national level. In this study, we apply the travel cost method to value the recreation services provided by natural lands in all nine regions of the United States. Specifically, this study estimates the total consumer surplus for each of the wildlife-related recreational activities (hunting, fishing, and wildlife-watching) in each of the nine U.S. regions through a Poisson regression model. We also investigate whether and how people from households of varying demographic backgrounds have different recreational habits. Utilizing data from the National Survey of Fishing, Hunting, & Wildlife-Associated Recreation implemented through the U.S. Census Bureau, we found that U.S. natural lands provide a remarkable amount of recreation use value—over $1 trillion per year to U.S. citizens who partake in wildlife-related activities. This recreation use value alone is much larger than the federal and state expenditures on natural land conservation. At the same time, we found that there is considerable regional variation in the magnitude and composition of the recreation use value provided by natural lands, highlighting the need for local and regional conservation strategies. Ultimately, our estimates can be incorporated into sophisticated economic projection and policy analysis models, allow us to make more equitable and appropriate data-driven policy decisions, and help inform the regional-level planning of America the Beautiful's conservation strategies.
